---
layout: post
title:  "Welcome to Human Manual"
date:   2022-05-07 21:54:32 +0300
categories: welcome
permalink: /welcome
---
 
You are [thrown](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thrownness) into this world with no explicit instructions on what you should do and how.

But don't worry - you're a result of billion years of [evolution](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Evolution), starting from simple cells up to complex organisms. 
You are already equipped with everything that you need:
* **Human Body** that can outrun any animal on this planet.
* **Human Mind** that can outsmart any animal on this planet.
* **Human Life** that your every ancestors has experienced and successfully continued.

You are not just a physical object - you are the **Human Life** - a continued, cyclical process that is sustained for billions of years.

Evolution happens not by just repeating cycle of life, but also by adding variations to each cycle, such as mutations, sex, gene flow, etc. 
Some variations lead to continuation of **Human Life** and cycle continues, but some not and cycle stops.
What is left after is the cycle that has highest probability to continue.

Same evolutional process is true for our consciousness - it gets shaped in such a way that provides the highest probability of our survival.
Not just our body and instincts are shaped by evolution to continue **Human Life**, but the processes in our head have to be aligned in such a way that we desire to continue the process of **Human Life**.

Our conscious understanding of that fact is the next important step in evolution of our species. 
We undestand the evolutionary rules of the game.
We are not just animals with brains - we know who we are and what is the infinite game we are playing.

When we know that we are **Human** and we should consciously continue the cycle of life - we need to actually do that.
And we do that by applying same evolutionary process to ideas in our minds, so that ideas die instead of us.
This way we excell at this evolutionary game, since we double-check our answers to the world before giving them.

We keep ideas that lead to survival and discard ideas that lead to death.
But how do we know which ideas lead to death?
If we try out ideas and some of them lead to death - we will be dead and dead people can't learn on their mistakes.

To solve this issue we use the power of our mind to observe and draw conclusions from our observations. A scientific method.
If we see a guy falling from a cliff and dying - we know that you falling from cliff leads to dying and we shouldn't do that in our lifes. All future ideas of voluntary falling from cliff will die withing us.
This process is very reliable, but not useful, since if there are 100 ways to die - I will have to observe 100s deaths before I will be able to avoid all of them.

To make it useful - we have developed a way to share these ideas between human beings by imitation and language.
Single human being that tells others that falling from clif will lead to death can save millions of lives.

This information passing behaviour gives each human a sensory and computational power of all other human beings.
Hearing that falling from cliff leads to death from other person is as useful as observing this and drawing conclusions ourselves.

But this power comes with a problem: How do we know that information that is being passed is valid? 
People can hijack this mechanism to pass you lies and gain advantage over you. 
They do this all the time, since in some cases it helps them to survive.

To get all the power and not be taken advantage of - you have to **Trust** the right people on the right topics to get the useful ideas. Ones that will help you more that they will hurt you.


This manual is an attempt to gather such useful ideas and their sources that will help everyone to live a **Human Life**.
A good example will be a link to a video of a guy, falling from a cliff that we can watch ourselves and draw our own conclusions.

Each idea in this manual have to contain facts, description of the processes to get those facts & conclusions that majority had drawn about those facts.
A scientific method applied to life.

Ideas in this manual has to be practical and relevant to us. 
Meaning that we should have here only ideas that requires least amount of cognitive efforts and produce the best increase in probability of survival.
